
# SSO integration for Legacy App

## Design Considerations

### Conditions

1. Site use Keycloak IdP as SSO solution with OpenID Connect. Keycloak use LDAP and Kerberos backend for User Federation. Keycloak configuration is minimal and simple. Single realm (not counting master realm). All users and groups are stored in user federation.
2. NetDisco, based on Perl Dancer framework, is a legacy web app without SSO integration. It is configured to trust web server for authorization, by using X-Remote-User HTTP Header.
3. Users browse NetDisco web site. Access should be protected with SSO. NetDisco should receive authenticated user in X-Remote-User header of REMOTE_USER variable.
4. Utility scripts get information from many systems with REST API, one of systems being NetDisco. NetDisco API access should be protected.
5. Utility scripts may be run in secured environment, no callbacks from IdP are possible
6. Deployment with Docker is preferred
7. Apache web server is preferred. If absolutely necessary, Nginx is an alternative.
8. Universal integration solution is preferred. Future integrations with other legacy web apps is considered, including simple file browser based on Apache mod_autoindex.
9. External HTTPS termination reverse proxy (Nginx) in deployed.
10. No requirement on protecting internal http connections with TLS.
11. No direct access to infrastructure from Internet, site is protected by firewall.
12. No Kubernetes or Docker Swarm. Manual container management with Docker Compose.
13. Python is preferred programming language.
14. Applications are targeted for internal use for small groups. Performance or latency issues may be tolerated
15. Support team is 1 DevOps lead and some junior engineers. Manpower is limited.
16. Open-Source solutions only, community support. Prefer well-known, long lifecycle solutions with some limitations to ideal but unique and proprietary solutions.
17. No strict requirement on High Availability.
18. Team has some experience with FastAPI.
19. Preferred Modular Architecture and Standard Integration Patterns.
20. Software Infrastructure is controlled by team, no internal boundaries. Infrastructure is secured.
21. Network is segmented, separating internet-facing web proxies from backends deployed in LAN
22. Infrastructure monitoring and centralized Syslog exists.

### Proposed solution

Intermediate gateway (proxy) app is considered as SSO integration between NetDisco App and Keycloak IdP.
User may create long-lived API access tokens for use in scripts for API access.
Token management is required for gateway app.

### Task

Utilize step-by-step approach to the problem. Do not proceed to next item until all previous are clear and confirmed by user.

1. Analyze the problem.
2. Ask clarifications for obscure, undefined conditions of the task.
3. Build your solution.
4. Analyze the proposed solution. Suggest improvements.
5. Ask for coding preferences, if not known yet.
6. Build the code, user and developer documentation.
